### Requirements
- Created virtual environment
- User added to dialup group
- Configured AWS cloud


### To develop in PyCharm:
1. Activate previously created environment using venv or anaconda.

    ```
    cd Micropython
    ```
    This step is platform dependent:
    #### Windows
    * For anaconda:
        ```
        conda activate ENV_NAME
        ```

    * For venv:
        ```
        ../terraform/scripts/ENV_NAME/Scripts/activate.bat
        ```

    #### Linux/ Mac OS
    * For anaconda:
        ```
        conda activate ENV_NAME
        ```

    * For venv:
        ```
        source ../terraform/scripts/ENV_NAME/bin/activate
        ```

2. Open the project MicroPython with PyCharm and mark *src* and *ulib_mocks* directory as Sources Root in Pycharm.

### AWS and terraform 
Make sure that your AWS cloud is configured. For more information please go to 
README in "terraform" directory [here](../terraform/README.md).

If you already have configured AWS infrastructure, make sure that:
- terraform exists either in ".terraform" directory or installed through the package manager
- you have configured ssh connections with AWS (aws configure)

### Basic Setup of the ESP32
To set up a new board or flash the old one. 
Make sure that your AWS cloud is configured, and your computer has AWS credentials.


#### Flashing the board
Make sure that your board is connected to the computer and you have activated your virtual environment. 
Check the port number - on Linux system, port can be checked through the simple script which will list all usb devices and their ports:

```bash
#!/bin/sh

for sysdevpath in $(find /sys/bus/usb/devices/usb*/ -name dev); do
    (
        syspath="${sysdevpath%/dev}"
        devname="$(udevadm info -q name -p $syspath)"
        [[ "$devname" == "bus/"* ]] && exit
        eval "$(udevadm info -q property --export -p $syspath)"
        [[ -z "$ID_SERIAL" ]] && exit
        echo "/dev/$devname - $ID_SERIAL"
    )
done
```

After finding the correct port, execute:

```bash
python scripts/upload_all.py -p <port>
```

After flashing the board please reset it using button EN button.


### Configuring board network 
Connect to the WiFi network created by a board. Network SSID will be:
```
WizzDev_IoT_<board_id>
```
For example:
```
Wizzdev_IoT_8caab5b8c18c
```
Network is open, so password will not be necessary. After successfull connection,
please open your web browser and type in the Address Bar:
```
http://192.168.4.1/web_pages/setup.html
```
Next, type your WiFi network credentials into SSID and Password fields and press
"Submit" button. Remember that this network should have an internet connection. 
Otherwise, data will not be sent to the AWS. 
If you’ve lost connection after submitting, don’t worry - that is supposed to happen.

### Logs from the device
If you want to see logs from working device you should access serial port 
communication with board. We recommend you programs listed below.

### Linux
On Linux you can use picocom:

* Ubuntu:
```bash
sudo apt-get install picocom 
```

* Fedora:
```bash
sudo dnf install picocom 
```

To run:
```bash
picocom <port> --baud 115200
```

### Windows 
On Windows you can use PuTTy _(https://www.putty.org/)_

After installing connect to the device through:
1. Select Session in Category
2. Select Serial in Connection type
3. Type in correct port (Serial line) and speed
4. Open connection

### Mac 
On Linux you can also use picocom

### Checking measurement
There are two ways to check measurements sent from the board. First is using AWS IoT core service, second is visualization page prepared by WizzDev.

#### Using IoT Core
Log in to your AWS account. Go to 'IoT Core' service. Next, choose "Test" and into "Subscription topic" type:
```
topic/data
```
Finally, click "Subscribe to topic". After some time you should see dataframes send by ESP32 board.

#### Visualization page
Visualization page url is generated by AWS during infrastructure build. So URL is connected with your AWS account. 
You can find this URL in places listed below:
- in file MicroPython/src/aws_config.json as **visualization_url**
- in the "CloudFront" service on your AWS account under the **Domain Name** field


